you
we're here at Yamaha HQ right now we're
talking two strokes in front of us we've
got the new yz250 to stroke such a
beautiful bike that's been around a
little bit but with the current surge
again in two-stroke racing and to start
riding we're going to take a bit of a
look at what Yamaha got going on with
this bike first up they've changed the
front guard numberplate radiator shroud
side panels and rear guard
Yamaha have updated all the plastics on
this bike with these changes that's
given the bike a whole new fresh sharp
look the two-stroke class is enjoying a
resurgence all the way from junior
racing with the 125 through the senior
racing the mxd class of MX nationals and
for the last round of the MX Nationals
that cool them this year they've even
added in a 250 two-stroke class it's
been quite a lot of controversy this
year is a 250 two-stroke an unfair
advantage racing against 254 strokes but
at the end of the day it always comes
down to writer preference and you know
the fastest riders are always going to
do well one of the most appealing things
for the two-stroke riders at the moment
is there a little bit cheaper to run
riders can work on the bike themselves a
lot more and it's just bringing back a
whole lot of fun into riding for a lot
of people i'm here with darren thompson
from yamaha motor australia and tom oh
tell us some of the things about this
bike that's different from the
four-stroke first up for guys that have
grown up racing for strokes and haven't
had an opportunity to race one of these
two strokes or ride one of them okay
well yeah first up i think you have to
be really fit and strong to ride one of
these things fast you know the power
weight ratio is is a lot greater than
four-stroke they struggle a little bit
more with traction but as you mentioned
the MXD class and the other class for
coulomb they'll have a reasonable
advantage in those classes because the
the MX nationals are the track surface
especially a starting area has been very
well manicured and it's all low me and
these things seem to excel there they
will struggle a little bit on the harder
packed tracks but yeah as i say pal the
weight they really got it going on so
power-to-weight ratio if you want to
have a little bit of fun nice light bike
keeper power you've just got to get it
to the ground properly
I think the two-stroke class being
exciting as it is and the the fresh look
of this new yz250 it's going to draw
back a lot of writers that possibly race
two strokes ten or fifteen years ago and
they're keen to have a little bit of fun
maybe even guys and aren't writing
anymore can can get hold of one of these
bikes don't they know they don't need to
work on it all the time they know it's
fairly cheap to run so I think it's
going to be as such a good thing for
Yamaha revamping this thing and putting
it back on the market as a fresh new
look they're gonna draw a lot of guys up
off that couch I think back onto the
racetrack